Hey, everyone.
First off, I want to say happy Mother's Day.
I've always been so appreciative of mothers, but I feel like especially during this season where I've been working from home, my gratitude has increased.
I'm typically sitting at our dining room table kind of zoned in, focused, but I can see in my periphery just all the things that my wife is doing as a mom to our kids.
And it just makes me so grateful.
So for those of you who are moms, I want to say we love you.
We are so grateful for you and we're praying for you.
And while today is a day to celebrate moms, we also want to acknowledge that it's a hard day for many people.
for a variety of reasons.
And because of that, we've made it a tradition to read this poem every year that really captures the complexity of this day and reminds us that we're all in this together.
So I'd like to read this to you all.
To those who gave birth this year to their first child, we celebrate with you.
To those who lost a child this year, we mourn with you.
To those who are in the trenches with little ones every day and where the badge of food stains, we appreciate you.
To those who experienced loss this year through miscarriage, failed adoptions or running away, we mourn with you.
To those who walk the hard path of infertility, fraught with pokes, prods, tears and disappointment, we walk with you.
Forgive us when we say foolish things.
We don't mean to make this harder than it is.
To those who are foster moms, mentor moms, and spiritual moms, we need you.
To those who have warm and close relationships with your children, we celebrate with you.
To those who have disappointment, heartache, and distance with your children, we sit with you.
To those who lost their mothers this year, we grieve with you.
To those who experienced abuse at the hands of your own mother, we acknowledge your experience.
To those who lived through driving tests, medical tests, and the overall testing of motherhood, we are better for having you in our midst.
To all those who have empty your nests in the upcoming year, we grieve and rejoice with you.
And to those who are pregnant with new life, both expected and surprising, we anticipate with you.
This Mother's Day, we walk with you.
Mothering is not for the faint of heart, and we have real warriors in our midst.
We remember you.
So I want to say again, just how thankful I am for the mothers in our church and we want to celebrate you and honor you this day.
All right, before we get to the preaching of the word today, I want to take a minute to talk about the offering.
This is a difficult time financially for a lot of people.
And yet it's been so encouraging to hear about the many ways that people are taking care of each other and helping out.
And the church is a family.
And that's what families do.
We take care of one another.
So I want to encourage you to keep letting your needs be known and then to help each other out.
I also want to encourage you to continue to give to the church.
So much has changed during this time, but it's not like we as a staff are doing less.
We're just focusing all of our attention specifically on a few things.
I mean, in the last week, we fed over 1500 meals at the Hope Center.
We have money set aside in our budget every year.
that we give specifically to people who are in need in the church.
And we've increased that and have helped out so many people.
So when you give to the church, you're helping with that as well.
We're focusing on supporting community groups and our Sunday gatherings as ways of really staying connected during this time.
So there's so much work to be done and there's so much work that is being done and God's using it all for his glory.
So if you want to give the way to do that is through the push pay app.
If you have a smartphone, you can download it
there and then just search for reality LA and set it up on there.
And thank you so much for your generosity.
When we give and when we sacrifice, it shows God's generosity and his sacrifice to this city.
All right, if you've got a Bible, go ahead and grab it and open up to the book of Philippians.
We're in a series right now that we're calling Defiant Joy.
This is teaching us how to live in the midst of this pandemic that we're in right now.
And so today I'm going to be reading from and preaching on Philippians chapter 1, verses 18 through 26.
So I'll read the text for us and then I'll open our time in prayer.
I'll be starting in Philippians 1, 18.
It's just at the latter half of verse 18.
Yes, and I will rejoice.
For I know that through your prayers and the help of the spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out for my deliverance.
As it is, my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death.
For to me, to live is Christ and to die is gain.
If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me.
Yet which I shall choose, I cannot tell.
I am hard pressed between the two.
My desire is to depart and to be with Christ for that is far better, but to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
Convince of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith so that in me, you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus because of my coming to you again."
This is God's Word.
Let's pray together.
God, we come before you.
asking that you would intervene in our lives at a time where everything feels so disorienting and confusing and there's a lot of frustration and loss.
God, we look to you and we thank you that you have spoken that your word pierces the silence and gives us direction and gives us hope.
And so Lord, would you speak today through your word as it's preached?
Would your spirit be at work in our hearts, God?
We ask this in Jesus' name, amen.
Well, in his biography of Steve Jobs, Walter Isaacson tells of a conversation between the two of them where they were sitting in Steve Jobs' backyard in his garden and began discussing life and death.
Steve Jobs said this, sometimes I believe in God, sometimes I don't.
I think it's 50-50 maybe.
But ever since I've had cancer, I've been thinking about it more.
And I find myself believing a bit more.
Maybe it's because I want to believe in an afterlife that when you die, it doesn't just all disappear.
The wisdom you've accumulated, somehow it lives on.
Then he paused for a second and went on and said this, but sometimes I think it's just like an on off switch.
Click and you're gone.
He paused again.
And then he said, and that's why I don't like putting on off switches on Apple devices.
See, the reality of death makes us think about what really matters in life.
But like Steve Jobs, many people in our culture try to avoid thinking about death.
We don't talk about death.
We don't think about death.
We certainly often don't live in light of death.
See, we live in a culture that in general avoids death as much as possible.
But right now, death is staring us in the face.
Right now, I mean, there's been over 70,000 deaths in the United States due to COVID-19.
And in LA County, we've been averaging around 75 deaths per day due to the virus.
And while thankfully no one in our church has died due to COVID-19, many of us, if not most of us, know someone who has.
See, death makes us think about what matters most in life.
And in the book of Philippians, Paul is in prison awaiting his execution, and yet he stares death in the face and doesn't flinch.
And how can he do that?
Because he has a joy that is not determined by his circumstances.
It's not determined by any circumstances, whether you're rich or poor, healthy or sick, hungry or fed.
It doesn't matter.
This joy transcends all circumstances, even as we'll see in Philippians 1, life and death.
So let's walk through this passage and see how it can give us direction for today.
Look at the end of verse 18, once again, where we started off.
He simply says yes.
And I will rejoice."
There it is.
That defiant joy.
In the previous verses, he was talking about imprisonment and opposition.
And here he's saying, and yet I choose joy.
It's that resilient faith.
The kind of faith that looks at circumstances in the eye and says, you have no power over me.
But let's keep going.
Look at verses 19 and 20.
He says,
For I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this will turn out from my deliverance.
As it is my eager expectation and hope that I will not be at all ashamed, but that with full courage now, as always, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by life or by death.
Now, you see more of this resilience in him when he says, Christ will be honored in my body.
I love that.
It's not up to him, whether he's in prison or not.
But he says, here's what I know.
No matter what happens, Christ is going to be honored in my life.
And I think this is a good word for us because we often spend so much of our energy on things that we can't control.
But I want to remind you that you can choose today.
I'm going to live for the glory of Jesus, no matter what comes my way.
Now in verse 19,
He talked about his deliverance.
And he says, I know that this deliverance is coming.
And when you heard that, you might have assumed that he's talking about getting out of prison.
But the word that he uses for deliverance here is actually the same word that's translated salvation.
It's a term that's often used for ultimate deliverance.
And we know he's not merely talking about being delivered from prison here because he says in the next verse, Christ will be honored in my body, whether by death or by life.
So it's like he's saying, whether I get delivered out of prison or get delivered into eternal life, I'm going to get delivered.
It reminds me of a story I heard recently.
It comes from Tony Evans.
Tony Evans is
one of my all-time favorite preachers.
He's an African-American preacher from the South and he just preaches the lights out.
I love Tony Evans.
But this past year, Dr. Evans' wife tragically passed away.
And I watched the funeral service online and his son, Jonathan Evans spoke about his mother.
And he spoke about wrestling with God
about not answering his prayers.
He had been praying for his mom's healing and that didn't happen.
But he said that it was as if the Lord then said to him, just because I didn't answer your prayer your way doesn't mean I didn't answer your prayer anyway.
And then God said to him, because of the victory that I've given you, there's always only two answers to your prayers.
Either she was gonna be healed
or she was gonna be healed.
Either she was gonna live or she was gonna live.
Either she was gonna be with family or she was gonna be with family.
Either she was gonna be well taken care of or she was gonna be well taken care of.
See, victory belongs to the Lord and that's true in life and in death.
And so for Paul, this confidence in God's deliverance in death or life
It leads to this hypothetical dilemma.
So let me read you verses 21 through 24.
As we see this dilemma that he presents, verse 21, for to me to live is Christ and to die as gain.
If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me.
Yet which shall I choose?
I cannot tell.
I am hard pressed between the two.
My desire is to depart and be with Christ.
For that is far better.
but to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
So think about his situation here, Paul's in prison awaiting death, and he's asking this hypothetical question, would I rather die and go and be with the Lord or stay and continue the mission he's called me to?
But they're both great options in his mind to live his Christ, to die his gain.
And I want you to think about both of these a little bit.
First of all, he says, to live is Christ.
What a way to describe life.
I mean, think about this.
Remember, he's in chains, but he's saying, my life is not defined by my context, but by my king.
And he has risen.
So he can say, to live is Christ.
He's saying, if I got Jesus, I got all I need.
But while he says to live is Christ, he also says, to die is gain.
Here at the Apostle Paul in this rat infested cold prison, it is longing for eternity.
He's longing for what he knows is guaranteed because of the gospel that evil will be eradicated, that all injustice will be put to an end.
He's longing for the day when there's no more suffering, when every tear will be wiped away and he's in the full presence of God.
See, most people fear death.
But Paul's not afraid of death because he knows that death is a doorway to eternal life.
This confidence that he has reminds me of the same kind of confidence, confidence that I heard of a story of another believer hundreds of years after in the fourth century.
John Chrysostom was a great preacher and a theologian in the early church.
But there was a point in his life where he was literally being threatened by the Empress to be banished because of his faith.
And here's what he said in response to this.
This is such an epic passage from John Christostom showing this confidence.
He says, if the Empress wishes to banish me, let her do so.
The earth is the Lord's.
If she wants to have me saw on a sander, I will have Isaiah for an example.
If she wants me to be drowned in the ocean, I think of Jonah.
If I am to be thrown in the fire, the three men in the furnace suffered the same.
If cast before wild beasts, I remember Daniel in the lion's den.
If she wants me to be stoned, I have before me Stephen, the first martyr.
If she demands my head, let her do so.
John the Baptist shines before me.
Naked, I came from my mother's womb.
Naked, shall I leave this world?
Paul reminds me, if I still pleased men, I would not be the servant of Christ."
What an incredible note of confidence that he has because of what God has done for him in Christ.
I mean, what can you do with a Christian like this?
Paul and Chrysostom, they have this mentality, like, if you beat me, it's going to make me stronger.
If you kill me, I get to go be with Jesus.
If you let me live, I'm gonna preach the gospel to more people.
If you strip me naked, I'm clothed in Christ.
If you take my money, I'm rich in Christ.
If you take my life, Jesus gives me eternal life.
It's as if someone's trying to blow out a fire and yet it stokes the flames even more.
What incredible confidence.
And so I want you to know today that you don't have to be afraid, even of death.
I mean, this may sound a little dramatic, but listen, we're in the midst of a pandemic where so many people are dying.
What if you got the coronavirus?
What if you knew death was coming soon for you?
Here's the thing, we're all going to die eventually.
That's inevitable.
So whether it's this week because of the coronavirus or whether that's decades later, we all have to face death.
And because of the gospel, you don't have to be afraid of it.
You too can say like Paul to live is Christ, but to die is gain.
So Paul presents this hypothetical dilemma, to live as Christ to die is gain.
Which should I choose?
Which should I embrace, so to speak?
And listen to his answer in verse 25.
He says, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith.
He embraces the mission that God has given him.
He wants to stay and live and why?
Well, in short, because there's still work to be done.
There's still work to be done.
I remember when, when I was a young believer,
And I was at a time where I was struggling and I was just feeling the difficulty of temptation and pain and all the tension and struggle that comes in life.
And I remember thinking, why when I trusted Christ for salvation?
Why does God not just immediately take us to heaven?
Like why not immediately take us out of all this brokenness and pain and hurt and sin and bring us into the fullness of His presence where we experience the fullness of His goodness.
Why doesn't when we trust Christ for salvation, why doesn't He just immediately take us to heaven?
Well, the reason is there's work to be done.
There's a mission that we've been given.
See, God is saving sinners and renewing His creation.
He's doing an incredible work and he's called us to participate in his work.
And so we need to be able to look to Christ knowing that in between the resurrection and the return of Christ, that we have to live in this tension, but we have to remain.
We have to abide in Christ.
We have to continue knowing that we can look forward to that day as glorious as it will be.
And listen, when we experience pain in life, it should make us ache and long for the new creation.
I mean, it's going to be glorious.
We're not going to suffer.
We're going to be in the presence of the Lord and all of His fullness.
We're going to be together every tribe and tongue and people and nation worshiping Christ.
It's going to be amazing, but not yet.
There's work to do.
And so Paul says,
that to live is Christ and that he wants to continue forward with this mission that God has given him.
And so what does he mean when he says to live is Christ?
Well, I think he explains that to us in the text.
So first of all, when he says to live is Christ, he means that it's to live a life of fruitful labor.
So in verse 22, he uses that phrase, fruitful labor.
And I love that because it has a lot of tension built into it.
See, everybody wants fruit, but nobody wants to labor.
We want joy and peace, but we don't want to sacrifice and serve.
But fruit without labor is, it's shallow and it's not lasting.
The fruit won't be very good and it won't keep coming back every season if you don't actually labor and toil and work at it.
But while fruit without labor might be shallow and not lasting, labor without fruit just leads us to despair, working hard and seeing nothing.
But what we see here is to live as Christ is to enter into this tension of fruitful labor.
To know that it's not supposed to be easy.
We live in a fallen world and yet God's doing this beautiful work of redemption.
So I want to call you to embracing that tension, keep going, keep laboring and trusting God to bear fruit.
So to live is Christ means a life of fruitful labor.
It also means a life live for others.
Look at verse 24 where he says that, he says, to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
What I want you to notice is that what makes his decision is not what's best for him, but the wellbeing of others.
He's not driven here by self-preservation, but by love.
Where would Paul get such a mentality?
Jesus, of course.
Jesus is the one who laid down his life for others.
And his call is to deny yourself and follow his way of love.
That's exactly what Paul is doing.
So to live as Christ means a life of fruitful labor, a life lived for others.
And it also means a life lived for joyful progress.
Now look at verse 25.
for this where he specifically says all of this is for your progress and joy in the faith.
Now, I love that he mentions progress and joy right in the same breath here because I think that these are probably in my opinion, the two main themes in the book of Philippians, progress and joy.
But what's absolutely unique is the way that these two come together and are held together
I mean, where else do you see this joy and progress together like this?
And some of you might be thinking that they work together like this.
Well, yeah, there's joy at the end of progress.
Like you work hard and then you get this reward of joy.
But no, what we're seeing here is that joy is not the finish line.
It's the, it's the engine that gets us to the finish line.
Joy compels us and moves us forward to, to make progress.
for the kingdom of God, for the glory of God.
And that's where we then see in Philippians one, that this joy then overflows into praise.
Look at verse 26, he says, all of this, so that in me, you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus.
See, God's glory is not competing with our joy.
Praise is the overflow of our joy.
When we delight in God and thank God and express gratitude and rejoice, that's worship.
And so we choose to worship through these trials.
We choose to praise through this hardship.
We choose to rejoice even in the midst of a pandemic because we see how good God is and how good he's been to us.
And this is where I want to remind you of what our true source of joy is.
We can have a joy beyond circumstances because our joy is rooted in Christ and what he has done for us.
And it's the gospel that's going to bring up this joy.
It's going to cultivate joy in you more and more and more throughout your life.
And so let me remind you, or for maybe some of you, those of you who haven't heard this, let me proclaim this good news of great joy while we were still sinners.
When we rebelled against God and thought we were smarter than him and tried to do things our own way and worked ourselves into a mess, God sent his son for us.
He responded with mercy and love.
And Jesus lived a perfect life.
He was perfectly just.
He was perfectly kind.
He was perfectly loving.
He did everything for the glory of God.
And yet he took that perfect life.
and he offered it up as a sacrifice for us.
Jesus died on the cross, not for himself.
He didn't have any of his own sins.
He died for our sins.
He was our substitute on the cross.
He took our place so that he would bear our judgment so that we could have life.
He died so that we might live.
And then he rose from the grave.
He's alive today.
And so Jesus isn't just a historical figure that we look back on.
He's a living savior that we can know.
He's with us.
Our joy comes from Him and He's alive.
So our source of joy is unending.
It's abundant.
So I want to call you today to look to Jesus and trust in Him, especially knowing that trusting in Christ in hard times
produces perseverance and endurance and growth in our lives.
I'll give you an example of how hardship is a way that God often gets our attention and works in our lives in ways like we might not ever expect otherwise.
There was a man in the 16th century named Ignatius.
He lived in Spain and Ignatius growing up was just, how do I describe it?
He was a real playboy.
He was a womanizer.
He was a fighter.
He'd go and pick fights.
He was real into fashion.
He cared so much about his reputation and fame.
Ignatius was a playboy.
And yet he was in the military and one day in a battle, his right leg was struck by a cannonball.
And this cannonball just shattered his leg.
And so he had to go to the hospital and there they tried to set his leg and then they had to re-break it and set it again.
He went into this season of immense suffering and isolation.
He was bedridden.
He was basically quarantined for this time.
And after a while of being in this situation and just suffering and being miserable with nothing to do, he started reading a book about the life of Jesus and seeing who Jesus was and what he did for us.
He experienced this incredible transformation in his life as he lay there, suffering his legs shattered by a cannonball.
And yet it was this hardship that led to a transformation that completely changed the trajectory of his life, where he went from that point forward and lived for Jesus and lived to show others the glory of Jesus.
And so I want to remind you,
that God is at work not in spite of our hardship, but through our hardship.
That's true of your life.
God is at work.
It's true for us as a church.
We can be strengthened by this adversity.
And so when we look to Christ and we remember all that He's done for us, it's then that we can have this kind of faith that can look even death in the face and not be afraid.
And we too will be able to say like the Apostle Paul, to live is Christ, to die is gain.
Let's pray together.
God, we thank you that through the gospel, even death has been defeated so that while there is much suffering and hardship in this life, we don't need to be driven by our fear because we can look to Christ in faith.
God, I pray that
For anyone right now who's hearing this, who doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, I pray, God, that hearing of death and sickness and experiencing loss in their lives, I pray that they would look to you in this moment and say, Jesus, I trust you.
I give you my life.
I acknowledge that you died from my sins, that you rose from the grave.
God, I pray that you would give them the faith to trust in you and that you would save them.
Lord, I pray for every single one of us,
that you would increase our faith in these hard times, to look to Jesus, to live for Him, to live in the tension of fruitful labor, to keep striving, to keep going and trusting in you, knowing that you are at work in all of this.
We believe that, Lord.
And we live for you, for your glory.
We pray this in Jesus' name, amen.